Constitution Act, 1867
(Originally, "The British North America Act, 1867")
(U.K. 30 & 31 Victoria, C.3)

(Consolidated with amendments)

An Act for the Union  of Canada, Nova Scotia,  and New Brunswick,  and
the Government thereof, and for Purposes connected therewith.

						(29 March, 1867.)

WHEREAS  the Provinces of Canada, Nova  Scotia  and New Brunswick have
expressed their Desire to be  federally united into One Dominion under
the Crown of the  United Kingdom of  Great Britain and Ireland, with a
Constitution similar in Principle to the United Kingdom;

AND WHEREAS such a Union would conduce to the Welfare of the Provinces
and promote the Interests of the British Empire;

AND  WHEREAS  on  the  Establishment  of    the Union by  Authority of
Parliament  it  is expedient, not only that   the  Constitution of the
Legislative Authority in the Dominion be  provided for,  but also that
the Nature of the Executive Government therein be declared;

AND WHEREAS it is expedient  that Provision be  made  for the eventual
Admission into the Union of other Parts of British North America:


	 		I. Preliminary

	1. This Act may be cited as the Constitution Act, 1867.

	2. REPEALED.


			II. Union

	3. It shall be lawful for the Queen, by and with the Advice of
	Her Majesty's  Most  Honourable Privy Council,   to declare by
	Proclamation  that, on and  after a Day therein appointed, not
	being more than Six Months after the passing  of this Act, the
	Provinces of Canada, Nova Scotia and  New Brunswick shall form
	and be One Dominion under the Name of Canada; and on and after
	that Day those Three Provinces shall form  and be One Dominion
	under that Name accordingly.

	[July 1st, 1867 was fixed by proclamation dated May 22, 1867.]

	4.  Unless  it is  otherwise   expressed or implied, the  Name
	Canada shall be taken to mean Canada as constituted under this
	Act.

	5. Canada shall be divided into Four Provinces, named Ontario,
	Quebec, Nova Scotia and New Brunswick.

	6. The parts  of the Province  of Canada (as it exists  at the
	passing of  this Act)  which formerly constituted respectively
	the provinces of Upper and Lower Canada shall  be deemed to be
	severed, and shall form Two separate Provinces. The Part which
	formerly   constituted   the Province  of  Upper  Canada shall
	constitute  the   Province  of Ontario,   and  the  Part which
	formerly  constituted   the Province   of  Lower  Canada shall
	Constitute the Province of Quebec.

	7. The Provinces of Nova  Scotia and New  Brunswick shall have
	the same Limits as at the passing of this Act.

	8. In the general Census of the Population of Canada, which is
	hereby  required to be  taken in  the  Year One thousand eight
	hundred and seventy-one,  and in every  Tenth Year thereafter,
	the   respective Populations  of the  Four Provinces  shall be
	distinguished.


			III. Executive Power

	9.  The Executive Government and Authority  of and over Canada
	is hereby declared to continue and be vested in the Queen.

	10. The Provisions  of  this Act   referring  to the  Governor
	General extend and apply to the Governor General for  the Time
	being  of   Canada,   or other   Chief    Executive Officer or
	Administrator for the Time being carrying on the Government of
	Canada  on behalf and  in the Name  of the Queen,  by whatever
	Title he is designated.

	11.  There  shall  be a Council   to  aid  and  advise in  the
	Government of  Canada, to be styled  the Queen's Privy Council
	for Canada;  and the Persons  who are  to  be Members of  that
	Council shall be from Time to Time chosen and summoned  by the
	Governor General   and  sworn in   as Privy   Councillors, and
	Members  thereof may   be from  Time to  Time removed  by  the
	Governor General.

	12. All Powers, Authorities and Functions which under  any Act
	of the Parliament of Great  Britain, or  of the Parliament  of
	the United  Kingdom of Great  Britain  and Ireland,  or of the
	Legislature  of Upper   Canada,  Lower  Canada,  Canada,  Nova
	Scotia,  or New  Brunswick, are  at the   Union vested  in  or
	exercisable  by  the  respective    Governors  or   Lieutenant
	Governors  of  those Provinces, with the  Advice,  or with the
	Advice  and Consent,  of   the respective  Executive  Councils
	thereof, or  in conjunction with  those Councils,  or with and
	Number of Members thereof, or by those Governors or Lieutenant
	Governors individually, shall, as far as  the same continue in
	existence and  capable being  exercised  after  the Union   in
	relation  to   the Government of   Canada,   be  vested in and
	exercisable by the Governor  General with the  Advice,  or the
	Advice and Consent of or in conjunction with the Queen's Privy
	Council for Canada, or any Member thereof, or  by the Governor
	General individually,    as   the  Case    requires,   subject
	nevertheless (except with  respect to  such as exist under the
	Acts of the Parliament  of Great Britain  or the Parliament of
	the  United  Kingdom   of Great  Britain and  Ireland)   to be
	abolished or altered by the Parliament of Canada.

	[The restriction against  abolishing or altering Laws  enacted
	by the  Parliament of the United Kingdom   was removed by _The
	Statute of Westminster, 1931_, 22 Geo. V., c.4 (U.K).]

	13. The Provisions  of  this  Act referring to  the   Governor
	General  in Council shall  be  construed  as referring to  the
	Governor General acting by and with the  Advice of the Queen's
	Privy Council for Canada.

	14.  It shall be  lawful for the Queen,  if Her Majesty thinks
	fit, to  authorize the Governor General  from Time to  Time to
	appoint and Person or any Persons jointly  or  severally to be
	his Deputy or Deputies within any Part or Parts of Canada, and
	in that  Capacity   to  exercise during  the  Pleasure  of the
	Governor  General   such of the   Powers,    Authorities,  and
	Functions of  the  Governor General   as  the Governor General
	deems it necessary  or expedient to  assign  to  him  or them,
	subject to any Limitations or Directions expressed or given by
	the  Queen; but  the Appointment  of such a Deputy or Deputies
	shall not affect the exercise  by the Governor General himself
	of any Power, Authority or Function.

	15. The Command-in-Chief of the Land and Naval Militia, and of
	all  Naval and Military  Forces, of and  in  Canada, is hereby
	declared to continue and be vested in the Queen.

	16. Until the Queen otherwise directs,  the Seat of Government
	of Canada shall be Ottawa.


			IV. Legislative Power

	17. There shall be One Parliament for Canada consisting of the
	Queen,  and  Upper House Styled the Senate,  and the House  of
	Commons.

	18. The privileges, immunities,  and powers held, enjoyed, and
	exercised by  the Senate and  House  of   Commons, and  by the
	Members thereof, shall   be such  as are  from  Time  to  Time
	defined by Act of  the Parliament of  Canada, but  so that any
	Act of  the   Parliament of Canada  defining  such privileges,
	immunities,   or powers  shall    not  confer and  privileges,
	immunities,  or powers exceeding  those at  the passing of the
	Act held, enjoyed  and  excercised by  the Commons   House  of
	Parliament of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland,
	and by the members thereof.

	19. The  Parliament of  Canada shall be  called  together  not
	later than Six Months after the Union.

	20. REPEALED.

			The Senate
	
	21. The Senate Shall, subject to  the Provisions of  this Act,
	consist of One  Hundred and four Members,  who shall be styled
	Senators.

	22. In relation to the Constitution of the Senate Canada shall
	be deemed to consist of Four Divisions:

		1. Ontario
		2. Quebec
		3.   The  Maritime Provinces,   Nova  Scotia  and  New
		Brunswick, and Prince Edward Island;
		4.   The  Western Provinces   of    Manitoba,  British
		Columbia, Saskatchewan, and Alberta;

	which Four Divisions shall  (subject to the Provisions of this
	Act) be equally represented in  the Senate as follows: Ontario
	by 24 senators; Quebec by 24  senators; the Maritime Provinces
	and Prince Edward Island by twenty four  senators, ten thereof
	representing   Nova   Scotia,    ten thereof representing  New
	Brunswick, and four thereof representing Prince Edward Island;
	the Western  Provinces by  twenty four senators,  six  thereof
	represting  Manitoba,    six   thereof representing    British
	Columbia,   six thereof  representing   Saskatchewan,  and six
	thereof   representing     Alberta; Newfoundland shall  be  be
	entitled to  be represented in  the Senate by six members, the
	Yukon territory and   the  Northwest   Territories   shall  be
	entitled to be represented in the Senate by one member each.

	In the  Case  of Quebec,    each of the Twenty-four   Senators
	representing  that Province shall  be appointed for One of the
	Twenty-four Electoral  Divisions of Lower  Canada specified in
	Schedule A. to Chapter  One  of  the  Consolidated  statues of
	Canada.

	23. The Qualifications of a Senator shall be as follows:

		(1) He shall be of the full age of Thirty Years;

		(2)  He shall be  either a natural-born Subject of the
		Queen naturalized by an Act of the Parliament of Great
		Britain, or of the Parliament of the United Kingdom of
		Great  Britain and Ireland,  or of the  Legislature of
		One of the Provinces  of  Upper Canada, Lower  Canada,
		Nova Scotia, or New Brunswick, before the Union, or of
		the Parliament of Canada, after the Union;

		(3)  He  shall  be legally or equitably   seised as of
		Freehold for his  Own   Use  and Benefit of  Lands  or
		Tenements held in Free and Common Socage, or seised or
		possessed for his  own Use  and  Benefit of Lands   or
		Tenements held in Franc-alleu or in Roture, within the
		Province for which  he  is  appointed, of the Value of
		Four Thousand Dollars, over and above all Rents, Dues,
		Debts,  Charges, Mortgages,  and  Incumbrances due  or
		payable out of or charged on or affecting the same;

		(4)  His Real and Personal  Property shall be together
		worth Four Thousand Dollars  over and above  his Debts
		and Liabilities;

		(5) He shall be resident in the  Province for which he
		is appointed;

		(6)  In the  case of Quebec  he shall  have  his  Real
		Property Qualification  in  the Electoral Division for
		which he  is appointed, or shall   be resident in that
		Division.

	24. The Governor General shall   from Time   to Time, in   the
	Queen's Name,  by  Instrument under  the Great Seal of Canada,
	summon  qualified Persons to  the Senate; and, subject to  the
	Provisions of this Act,  every person so summoned shall become
	and be a Member of the Senate and a Senator.

	25. REPEALED.

	26.   If at  any Time  on  the Recommendation  of the Governor
	General the  Queen thinks fit  to  direct  that  Four or Eight
	Members be added to  the  Senate, the Governor General may  by
	Summons to Four or Eight qualified  Persons  (as the  case may
	be), representing equally the Four Divisions of Canada, add to
	the Senate accordingly.

	27. In case of such Addition be at any Time made, the Governor
	General shall not summon any Person to the Senate, except upon
	a    further  like   Direction by   the   Queen on  the   like
	Recommendation, to  represent, to  represent one  of the  Four
	Divisions until  such Division  is represented  by Twenty-Four
	Senators and no more.

	28.  The Number of Senators shall  not at any Time exceed  One
	Hundred and twelve.

	29. (1) Subject to subsection (2), a Senator shall, subject to
	the provisions of this Act, hold his  place in the  Senate for
	life.
	    (2)  A  Senator who is  summoned  to the Senate  after the
	coming into  force of this subsection shall,  subject  to this
	Act, hold his place in the Senate until he attains  the age of
	seventy-five years.

	30. A Senator may by Writing under  his Hand  addressed to the
	Governor General resign his Place in the Senate, and thereupon
	the same shall be vacant.

	31. The Place of a Senator shall  become vacant in  any of the
	following Cases:

		1. If for Two consecutive  Sessions of  the Parliament
		he fails to give his Attendance in the Senate;
		
		2.  If he  takes   an Oath  or  makes a Declaration or
		Acknowledgement of Allegiance, Obedience, or Adherence
		to a Foreign Power, or does  an Act whereby he becomes
		a Subject or Citizen, or  entitled  to  the Rights and
		Privileges  of  a  Subject or Citizen, of   a  Foreign
		Power;
		
		3. If he is adjudged Bankrupt or Insolvent, or applies
		for the Benefit  of  any  Law relating to    Insolvent
		Debtors, or becomes a public Defaulter;
		
		4. If he  is  attainted  of Treason or convicted  of a
		Felony or of any infamous Crime;

		5. If he ceases to be qualified in respect of Property
		or of Residence; provided, that a Senator shall not be
		deemed to have ceased  to  be qualified in  respect of
		Residence by reason only  of his residing  at the Seat
		of  the Government of Canada while   holding an Office
		under that Government requiring his Presence there.

	32.  When a Vacancy  happens   in  the Senate by  Resignation,
	Death, or otherwise, the Governor General shall  by Summons to
	a fit and qualified Person fill the Vacancy.

	33. If any Question arises respecting  the  Qualification of a
	Senator or a Vacancy in the Senate the same shall be heard and
	determined by the Senate.

	34. The Governor General may from Time to  Time, by Instrument
	under the Great  Seal  of  Canada, appoint   a Senator to   be
	Speaker of the Senate, and may remove  him and appoint another
	in his Stead.

	35.  Until the  Parliament of  Canada otherwise  provides, the
	Presence of at least Fifteen  Senators, including the Speaker,
	shall be necessary to  constitute a Meeting  of the Senate for
	the Exercise of its Powers.

	36. Questions arising  in the Senate  shall be  decided   by a
	Majority of Voices, and the Speaker shall in  all Cases have a
	Vote, and when  the Voices are   equal the  Decision shall  be
	deemed to be in the Negative.


			The House of Commons

	37. The House of Commons  shall,  subject to the Provisions of
	this  Act, consist of two hundred  and  eighty-two  members of
	whom ninety- five shall  be elected  for Ontario, seventy-five
	for  Quebec, eleven  for Nova Scotia,  ten  for New Brunswick,
	fourteen for Manitoba, twenty-eight for British Columbia, four
	for Prince Edward Island, twenty-one for Alberta, fourteen for
	Saskatchewan,    seven  for Newfoundland,  one   for the Yukon
	Territory and two for the Northwest Territories.

	38.  The Governor  General shall  from Time   to  Time, in the
	Queen's Name, by  Instrument under the Great Seal  of  Canada,
	summon and call together the House of Commons.

	39. A  Senator shall  not be capable   of  being elected or of
	sitting or voting as a Member of the House of Commons.

	40. SPENT.
		
	[Defined    Federal  electoral   districts  for  the  original
	provinces.  Now  covered by the   _Representation  Act, 1952_,
	c.334, as amended.]

	41. SPENT.

	[Defined  Federal   electoral    regulations  for the  orginal
	provinces.  Now covered by the  _Canada  Elections Act, 1960_,
	c.38, as amended.]

	42. REPEALED.

	43. REPEALED.

	44. The  House  of Commons on  its  first  assembling after  a
	General Election shall  proceed with all practicable  Speed to
	elect One of its Members to be Speaker.

	45. In case of a Vacancy happening in the office of Speaker by
	Death, Resignation, or otherwise, the  House of Commons  shall
	with all  practicable Speed  proceed to  elect another of  its
	Members to be Speaker.

	46. The Speaker shall preside at all Meetings of the  House of
	Commons.

	47. SPENT.

	[Provisions for exercising the powers  of the  Speaker  of the
	House of Commons  in his absence. Now covered  by _The Speaker
	of the House of Commons Act, 1952_, c. 254, as amended.]

	48. The Presence of  at least  Twenty Members  of the House of
	Commons shall be  necessary to constitute   a  Meeting  of the
	House for the Exercise of its Powers, and for that Purpose the
	Speaker shall be reckoned as a Member.

	49. Questions arising in the House of Commons shall be decided
	by  a Majority of  Voices other than that  of the Speaker, and
	when  the Voices are equal,   but  not  otherwise, the Speaker
	shall have a Vote.

	50. Every House of Commons shall continue  for Five Years from
	the  Day of  the Return of  the  Writs for choosing  the House
	(subject to be sooner dissolved by the  Governor General), and
	no longer.

	51. Omitted.

	51A.  Notwithstanding anything in  this Act  a province  shall
	always be entitled to  a  number of  members  in the House  of
	Commons not less than the number of Senators representing such
	province.

	52. The Number of Members of the House of  Commons may be from
	Time to Time increased  by the Parliament  of Canada, provided
	that   the    proportionate  Representation of the   Provinces
	prescribed by this Act is not thereby disturbed.


			Money Votes; Royal Assent

	53. Bills for appropriating any Part of the Public Revenue, or
	for imposing  any Tax or Impost,  shall originate in the House
	of Commons.

	54. It shall not be lawful for the  House of Commons  to adopt
	or  pass   any  Vote, Resolution,   Address,  or Bill  for the
	appropriation of any Part of the Public Revenue, or of any Tax
	or Impost, to any Purpose that has not been  first recommended
	to   that House  by Message   of the Governor   General in the
	Session in which  such Vote,  Resolution, Address,  or Bill is
	proposed.

	55. Where   a   Bill passed  by Houses  of the  Parliament  is
	presented  to the Governor General for  the Queen's assent, he
	shall declare, according to his Discretion, but subject to the
	Provisions of  this  Act and to  Her   Majesty's Instructions,
	either that he assents thereto in the Queen's name, or that he
	withholds the Queen's Assent, or that he reserves the Bill for
	the signification of the Queen's Pleasure.

	56. Where  the Governor  General   assents  to  a Bill  in the
	Queen's Name, he  shall  by  the first convenient  Opportunity
	send an  authentic  Copy of the  Act to one of   Her Majesty's
	Principal  Secretaries of State, and if   the Queen in Council
	within Two  Years  after Receipt thereof by  the  Secretary of
	State thinks fit to disallow the  Act, such Disallowance (with
	a Certificate of  the Secretary of  State on the Day on  which
	the Act was  received by him) being  signified by the Governor
	General, by  Speech or Message to  each of   the Houses of the
	Parliament  or by Proclamation,  shall annul the Act from  and
	after the Day of such Signification.

	57. A   Bill reserved for  the  Signification of   the Queen's
	Pleasure shall not have any Force unless and until, within Two
	Years from the Day on  which it was presented to  the Governor
	General for  the     Queen's Assent,     the  Governor General
	signifies, by Speech or Message to  each of the  Houses of the
	Parliament or by Proclamation, that it has received the Assent
	of the Queen in Council.

	    An Entry of  every such Speech,  Message, or  Proclamation
	shall be  made in the  Journal of each  House, and a Duplicate
	thereof duly attested shall be delivered to the proper Officer
	to be kept among the Records of Canada.

			V. Provincial Constitutions

	58. For each Province there  shall  be an Officer, styled  the
	Lieutenant  Governor, appointed by  the   Governor General  in
	Council by Instrument under the Great Seal of Canada.

	59. A   Lieutenant Governor  shall   hold  Office   during the
	Pleasure of the Governor General; but  any Lieutenant Governor
	appointed  after the Commencement  of the First Session of the
	Parliament of Canada shall not be removable withing Five Years
	from his Appointment,  except for Cause assigned,  which shall
	be  communicated to be  in Writing within One  Month after the
	Order  for his removal  is made, and  shall be communicated by
	Message to the Senate and  to the House  of Commons within One
	Week thereafter if the Parliament is then  sitting, and if not
	then within  One  Week after   the  Commencement of  the  next
	Session of the Parliament.

	60.  The Salaries of  the Lieutenant Governors  shall be fixed
	and provided by the Parliament of Canada.

	61.  Every  Lieutenant Governor  shall,    before assuming the
	Duties of his Office,  make and subscribe before  the Governor
	General  of some Person authorized by  him Oaths of Allegiance
	and Office similar to those taken by the Governor General.

	62.  The Provisions of this Act  referring   to the Lieutenant
	Governor extend and apply  to the  Lieutenant Governor for the
	Time  being of  each Province,  or   other the Chief Executive
	Officer or Administrator for the   Time being carrying on  the
	Government    of the Province,   by    whatever   Title he  is
	designated.

	63. The Executive Council of  Ontario and  of Quebec shall  be
	composed of such Persons as the  Lieutenant Governor from Time
	to Time thinks fit, and in the first instance of the following
	Officers, namely, -- the Attorney  General, the Secretary  and
	Registrar of the Province, the Treasurer of  the Province, the
	Commissioner  of Crown Lands, the  Commissioner of Agriculture
	and  Public   Works, with   in  Quebec  the  Speaker   of  the
	Legislative Council and the Solicitor General.

	64. The Constitution of the Executive Authority in each of the
	Provinces of Nova  Scotia and  New Brunswick shall, subject to
	the Provisions of this Act, continue as it exists at the Union
	until altered under the Authority of this Act.

	65. All Powers, Authorities, and Functions which under any Act
	of the  Parliament of Great  Britain, or of  the Parliament of
	the United  Kingdom of Great Britain  and  Ireland, or  of the
	Legislature of Upper Canada, Lower Canada, or Canada,  were or
	are before  or at the Union  vested in  or exercisable  by the
	respective   Governors   or     Lieutenant Governors  of those
	Provinces, with  the Advice  and   Consent of  the  respective
	Executive Councils  thereof,  or   in conjunction  with  those
	Councils, or with any  Number of Members  thereof, or by those
	Governors or  Lieutenant Governors individually, shall, as far
	as the same are capable of being exercised  after the Union in
	relation to the Government of Ontario and Quebec respectively,
	be vested in and shall or may  be  exercised by the Lieutenant
	Governors of Ontario and  Quebec respectively, with the Advice
	or  the Advice  and  consent of  or  in  conjunction  with the
	respective Executive  Councils, or  any Members thereof, or by
	the Lieutenant  Governor individually,  as the Case  requires,
	subject nevertheless (except   with respect to  such  as exist
	under  Acts of  the Parliament  of Great  Britain, or   of the
	Parliament  of  the   United Kingdom   of  Great  Britain  and
	Ireland), to  be   abolished  or altered   by  the  respective
	Legislatures of Ontario and Quebec.

	[See note to section 12, above.]

	66.  The  Provisions of this  Act referring to  the Lieutenant
	Governor  in Council shall  be construed  as  referring to the
	Lieutenant Governor  of  the Province acting  by and  with the
	Advice of the Executive Council thereof.

	67.  The Governor General  in Council   may  from Time to Time
	appoint an Administrator  to execute  the office and Functions
	of Lieutenant Governor  during his  Absence, Illness, or other
	Inability.

	68. Unless and until the Executive Government  of any Province
	otherwise directs with respect to that  Province, the Seats of
	Government of the Provinces shall be as follows, namely, -- of
	Ontario, the City  of Toronto; of Quebec,  the City of Quebec;
	of Nova Scotia, the City of Halifax; and of New Brunswick, the
	City of Fredricton.


			Legislative Power

			1. Ontario

	69. There shall be a Legislature for Ontario consisting of the
	Lieutenant Governor and of  One House, styled the  Legislative
	Assembly of Ontario.

	70. SPENT.
	[Defined size  and composition of the  Legislative Assembly of
	Ontario.  Now  covered  by  the _Representation  Act,   R.S.O.
	1960_, c.353.]

			2. Quebec

	71. There shall be a Legislature for Quebec  consisting of the
	Lieutenant Governor and  of Two Houses, styled the Legislative
	Council of Quebec and the Legislative Assembly of Quebec.

	72. SPENT.
	[Defined size, composition and term of the Legislative Council
	of Quebec. Now covered by the _Legislature Act, R.S.Q. 1964_,
	c. 6.]

	73.  The Qualifications   of the  Legislative  Councillors  of
	Quebec shall be the same as those of the Senators of Quebec.

	74. The  Place  of a  Legislative  Councillor  of Quebec shall
	become  vacant in the Cases,  _mutatis mutandis_, in which the
	Place of Senator becomes vacant.

	75. When Vacancy happens in the Legislative  Council of Quebec
	by Resignation, Death,  or otherwise, the Lieutenant Governor,
	in  the Queen's Name, by Instrument   under the Great  Seal of
	Quebec, shall appoint a fit  and qualified Person  to fill the
	Vacancy.

	76. If any Question  arises respecting the Qualifications of a
	Legislative  Councillor  of Quebec,    or  a Vacancy  in   the
	Legislative  Council of Quebec,  the same  shall  be heard and
	determined by the Legislative Council.

	77. SPENT.
	[Appointment of Speaker  of the Legislative Council of Quebec.
	Now covered by the _Legislature Act_.]

	78. Until the  Legislature of  Quebec otherwise  provides, the
	Presence of at least  ten Members of the Legislative  Council,
	including  the Speaker,   shall be  necessary  to constitute a
	Meeting for the Exercise of its Powers.

	79. Questions  arising in the   Legislative Council  of Quebec
	shall be decided  by a  Majority  of Voices,  and  the Speaker
	shall in all Cases have a Vote, and  when the Voices are equal
	the Decision shall be deemed to be in the Negative.

	80. SPENT.
	[Defined  size  and composition    of Legistlative Assembly of
	Quebec.  Now covered by the _Legislature Act_.]


			3. Ontario and Quebec

	81. REPEALED.

	82. The Lieutenant Governor  of Ontario  and Quebec shall from
	Time to  Time, in the  Queen's Name,   by Instrument under the
	Great  Seal of the Province,   summon and  call  together  the
	Legislative Assembly of the Province.

	83. SPENT.
	[Eligibility requirements for    members of  the   Legislative
	Assembly.   Covered by the  _Legislative  Assembly Act, R.S.O.
	1960_ in Ontario, and by the _Legislature Act, R.S.Q. 1964_ in
	Quebec.]

	84. SPENT.
	[Defined Provincial election rules for Ontario and Quebec. Now
	covered by the a number of Acts in  each province, notably the
	_Elections Act, R.S.O. 1960_  in   Ontario and the  _Elections
	Act, R.S.Q.  1964_ in Quebec.]

	85. SPENT.
	[Defined the  maximum duration of  a sessions  of  each of the
	Legislative Assemblies.   Now covered by the _Legislature Act_
	of each of the provinces (see above).]

	86. There shall be a Session of the Legislature of Ontario and
	of that of Quebec once at least in every  Year, so that Twelve
	Months shall   not intervene between the last   Sitting of the
	Legislature in each Province and its first Sitting of the next
	Session.

	87 The following Provisions  of  this Act respecting the House
	of Commons of Canada shall extend and apply to the Legislative
	Assemblies  of  Ontario and  Quebec,  that is  to say,  -- the
	Provisions relating to  the Election of  a  Speaker originally
	and on Vacancies, the  Duties of the Speaker,  the Absence  of
	the Speaker, the Quorum,  and the Mode of  Voting, as if those
	Provisions  were here re-enacted  and applicable   in Terms to
	each such Legislative assembly.


			4. Nova Scotia and New Brunswick

	88. The Constitution   of  the  Legislature  of  each  of  the
	Provinces of Nova  Scotia and New Brunswick shall,  subject to
	the provisions of this Act, continue as it exists at the Union
	until altered under the Authority of this Act.

	89. REPEALED.


			6. The Four Provinces

	90. The  following   provisions  of  this  Act respecting  the
	Parliament of  Canada,  namely, -- the Provisions  relating to
	Appropriation   and  Tax Bills,   the  Recommendation of Money
	Votes, the Assent to Bills,  the Disallowance of Acts, and the
	Signification of  Pleasure on Bills  reserved, -- shall extend
	and apply to  the Legislatures  of the several Provinces as if
	those Provisions where here  re-enacted and made applicable in
	Terms  to   the  respective Provinces   and the   Legislatures
	thereof,  with the Substitution of  Lieutenant Governor of the
	Province for the Governor General, of the Governor General for
	the Queen and  for a Secretary  of State, of One  Year for Two
	Years, and of the Province for Canada.


			VI. Distribution of Powers

	91. It  shall be Lawful for the  Queen, by and with the Advice
	and Consent of the Senate and  the House of  Commons,  to make
	Laws for  the Peace, Order  and Good Government of  Canada, in
	relation  to all  Matters  not coming within   the  Classes of
	Subjects by this Act assigned  exclusively to the Legislatures
	of the Provinces; and for greater  Certainty, but not so as to
	restrict the Generality of the foregoing Terms of the Section,
	it is  hereby declared that  (notwithstanding anything in this
	Act) the exclusive Legislative Authority of  the Parliament of
	Canada extends  to  all Matters  coming  within the Classes of
	Subjects hereinafter enumerated; that is to say,

		1.  REPEALED.
		1A. The Public Debt and Property.
		2.  The Regulation of Trade and Commerce.
		2A. Unemployment insurance.
		3.  The Raising of Money by any Mode or System of
		    Taxation.
		4.  The borrowing of Money on the Public Credit.
		5.  Postal Service.
		6.  The Census and Statistics.
		7.  Militia, Military and Naval Service, and Defence.
		8.  The fixing of and providing for the Salaries and
		    Allowances of Civil and other Officers of the
		    Government of Canada.
		9.  Beacons, Buoys, Lighthouses, and Sable Island.
		10. Navigation and Shipping.
		11. Quarantine and the Establishment and Maintenance 
		    of Marine Hospitals.
		12. Sea Coast and Inland Fisheries.
		13. Ferries between a Province and any British or
		    Foreign Country, or between two Provinces
		14. Currency and Coinage
		15. Banking, Incorporation of Banks, and the Issue of
		    Paper Money
		16. Savings Banks
		17. Weights and Measures
		18. Bills of Exchange and Promissory Notes
		19. Interest
		20. Legal Tender
		21. Bankruptcy and Insolvency
		22. Patents of Invention and Discovery
		23. Copyrights
		24. Indians, and Lands reserved for the Indians
		25. Naturalization and Aliens
		26. Marriage and Divorce
		27. The Criminal Law, except for the Constitution of
		    Courts of Criminal Jurisdiction, but including the
		    Procedure in Criminal Matters.
		28. The Establishment, Maintenance, and Management of
		    Penitentiaries.
		29. Such Classes of Subjects as are expressly excepted
		    in the Enumeration of the Classes of Subjects by
		    this Act assigned exclusively to the Legislatures
		    of the Provinces.

	And  any Matter coming  within any  of the Classes of Subjects
	enumerated in this Section shall not be  deemed to come within
	the Class of matters of a local or private Nature comprised in
	the    Enumeration of the Classes  of    Subjects by this  Act
	assigned exclusively to the Legislatures of the Provinces.


		Exclusive Powers of the Provincial Legislatures

	92. In each Province the Legislature may exclusively make Laws
	in relation  to matters coming  within the Classes  of Subject
	next hereinafter enumerated; that is to say, --

		1.  REPEALED.
		2.  Direct Taxation within the Province in order to
		    the raising of a Revenue for Provincial Purposes.
		3.  The borrowing of Money on the sole Credit of the
		    Province.
		4.  The Establishment and Tenure of Provincial Offices
		    and the Appointment and Payment of Provincial
		    Officers.
		5.  The Management and Sale of the Public Lands
		    belonging to the Province and of the Timber and
		    Wood thereon.
		6.  The Establishment, Maintenance, and Management of
		    Public and Reformatory Prisons in and for the
		    Province.
		7.  The Establishment, Maintenance, and Management of
		    Hospitals, Asylums, Charities, and Eleemosynary
		    Institutions in and for the Province, other than
		    Marine Hospitals.
		8.  Municipal Institutions in the Province.
		9.  Shop, Saloon, Tavern, Auctioneer, and other
		    Licences in order to the raising of a Revenue for
		    Provincial, Local, or Municipal Purposes.
		10. Local Works and Undertakings other than such as
		    are of the following classes:
			(a) Lines of Steam or other Ships, Railways,
			Canals, Telegraphs, and other Works and
			Undertakings connecting the Province with any
			other or others of the Province, or extending
			beyond the Limits of the Province;
			(b) Lines of Steam Ships between the Province
			and any British or Foreign Country;
			(c) Such Works as, although wholely situate
			within the Province, are before or after their
			Execution declared to be for the general
			Advantage of Canada or for the Advantage of
			Two or more of the Provinces.
		11. The Incorporation of Companies with Provincial
		    Objects.
		12. The Solemnization of Marriage in the Province.
		13. Property and Civil Rights within the Province.
		14. The Administration of Justice in the Province,
		    including the Constitution, Maintenance, and
		    Organization of Provincial Courts, both of Civil
		    and of Criminal Jurisdiction, and including
		    Procedure in Civil Matters in those Courts.
		15. The Imposition of Punishment by Fine, Penalty, or
		    Imprisonment for enforcing any Law of the Province
		    made in relation to any Matter coming within any
		    of the Classes of Subjects enumerated in this
		    Section.
		16. Generally all Matters of a merely local or private
		    Nature in the Province.


			Non-Renewable Natural Resources, Forestry
			     Resources, and Electrical Energy

	92A. (1) In each province, the legislature may exclusively
		 make laws in relation to
		(a) exploration for non-renewable natural resources in
		    the province;
		(b) development, conservation and management of non-
		    renewable natural resources and forestry resources
		    in the province, including laws in relation to the
		    rate of primary production therefrom; and
		(c) development, conservation and management of sites
		    and facilities in the province for the generation
		    and production of electrical energy.

	     (2) In each province,  the legislature may make  laws  in
	         relation to the  export from the province  to another
	         part   of Canada  of   the   primary production  from
	         non-renewable   natural  resources    and    forestry
	         resources  in the province  and the  productions from
	         facilities in   the  province for  the  generation of
	         electrical energy, but such laws may not authorize or
	         provide for  discrimination  in  prices   or supplies
	         exported to another part of Canada.

	     (3) Nothing   in  subsection   (2)  derogates  from   the
	         authority of Parliament  to enact laws in relation to
	         the matters referred to in that subsection and, where
	         such a  law  of Parliament  and  a law of  a Province
	         conflict, the law  of  Parliament   prevails   to the
	         extent of the conflict.

	     (4) In  each province,  the  legislature may make laws in
	         relation  to  the raising of money   by  any  mode or
	         system of taxation in respect of

		(a) non-renewable    natural resources   and
	            forestry  resources in the  province and
	            the primary production therefrom, and

		(b) sites and facilities in the province for
	            the generation of electrical  energy and
	            the production therefrom,

		 whether or not such production  is exported  in whole
	         or in part from  the province, but such laws  may not
	         authorize or provide for taxation that differentiates
	         between production exported to another part of Canada
	         and production not exported from the province.

	     (5) The Expression "primary production"  has the  meaning
	         assigned in the Sixth Schedule.

	     (6) Nothing  subsections (1) to   (5) derogates from  any
	         powers or rights that a legislature or  government of
	         a province had  immediately  before  the  coming into
	         force of this section.

			Education

	93. In and  for each Province the Legislature  may exclusively
	make Laws  in relation to Education, subject  and according to
	the following Provisions: --

		1. Nothing in   any  such Law shall prejudicially
		   affect any Right or  Privilege with respect to
		   Denominational Schools  which  any  Class   of
		   Persons  have by  Law  in the Province  at the
		   Union.

		2. All the Powers,  Privileges, and Duties at the
		   Union by  Law conferred  and imposed in  Upper
		   Canada   on  the Separate  Schools  and School
		   Trustees   of   the  Queen's    Roman Catholic
		   Subjects  shall be  and  the same  are  hereby
		   extended to  the Dissentient  Schools of   the
		   Queen's Protestant and Roman Catholic Subjects
		   in Quebec.

		3. Where in any Province  a System of Separate or
		   Dissentiant Schools exists by Law at the Union
		   or     is    thereafter  established   by  the
		   Legislature  of the Province,  an Appeal shall
		   lie to  the  Governor General in  Council from
		   any   Act  or   Decision   of  any  Provincial
		   Authority affecting  any Right or Privilege of
		   the Protestant or  Roman  Catholic Minority of
		   the Queen's Subjects in relation to education.

		4. In case any such  Provincial  Law as from Time
		   to Time seems  to   the  Governor  General  in
		   Council requisite for the due Execution of the
		   Provisions of this  Section is not made, or in
		   case any Decision of  the Governor  General in
		   Council on  any appeal under  this Section  is
		   not duly  executed  by  the proper  Provincial
		   Authority  in that  behalf,  the and in  every
		   such    Case,  and  as     far  only   as  the
		   Circumstances   of  each    Case require,  the
		   Parliament of  Canada  may make  remedial Laws
		   for the  due Execution  of   the Provisions of
		   this  Section  and  of any     Decision of the
		   Governor General  in    Council   under   this
		   Section.


	    Uniformity of Laws in Ontario, Nova Scotia and
			    New Brunswick

	94. Notwithstanding  anything in this  Act, the Parliament  of
	Canada may make Provision for the Uniformity of all or  any of
	the  Laws relative to  Property  and Civil Rights  in Ontario,
	Nova Scotia, and New Brunswick, and of the Procedure of all or
	any of the Courts of Those Three Provinces, and from and after
	the  passing of any   Act in that Behalf   the   Power  of the
	Parliament of Canada to  make Laws  in relation  to any Matter
	comprised in any  such Act shall, notwithstanding anything  in
	this Act,  be  unrestricted; but any Act of  the Parliament of
	Canada  making  Provision for such  Uniformity  shall not have
	effect in any   Province unless and until   it is adopted  and
	enacted as Las by the Legislature thereof.

			   Old Age Pensions

	94A. The Parliament of Canada may make laws in relation to old
	age pensions and supplementary  benefits, including survivors,
	and disability benefits irrespective of  age, but no  such law
	shall affect the operation  of any law present  or future of a
	provincial legislature in relation to any such matter.

			Agriculture and Immigration

	95. In each Province the Legislature may make Laws in relation
	to Agriculture  in the Province, and  to Immigration into  the
	Province;  and  it is hereby  declared that the  Parliament of
	Canada may    from Time to  Time   make Laws in   relation  to
	Agriculture in all of any of the Provinces, and to Immigration
	into all  or  any  of   the Provinces;  and   any Law  of  the
	Legislature  of  a   Province  relative  to   Agriculture   or
	Immigration shall have effect in  and for the Province as long
	and as far  only as it  is not repugnant to  any   Act of  the
	Parliament of Canada.


			VII. Judicature

	96.  The Governor  General shall  appoint  the Judges  of  the
	Superior, District, and County Courts in each Province, except
	those  of   the   Course of  Probate  in Nova  Scotia and  New
	Brunswick.

	97. Until the laws relative  to Property and  Civil Rights  in
	Ontario,  Nova Scotia and  New Brunswick, and the Procedure of
	the Courts in those Provinces, are made uniform, the Judges of
	the Courts   of  those  Provinces  appointed  by  the Governor
	General shall  be selected from the  respective  Bars of those
	Provinces.

	98. The Judges of the Courts  of Quebec shall be selected from
	the Bar of that Province.

	99. (1) Subject to subsection two of this section,  the Judges
	of the  Superior   Courts  shall hold   office   during   good
	behaviour, but shall  be removable by the Governor  General on
	Address of the Senate and House of Commons.

	    (2) A Judge of a Superior  Court, whether appointed before
	or after the coming into force of this section, shall cease to
	hold office upon attaining  the age  of seventy-five years, or
	upon the coming into forces of this section if at that time he
	has already attained that age.

	100. The  Salaries, Allowances, and  Pensions of the Judges of
	the Superior, District and County Courts (except the Courts of
	Probate  in  Nova  Scotia  and   New Brunswick),   and  of the
	Admiralty Courts in Cases where the Judges thereof are for the
	Time being paid by Salary, shall be  fixed and provided by the
	Parliament of Canada.

	101. The Parliament of Canada may, notwithstanding anything in
	this  Act, from Time  to  Time  provide for the  Constitution,
	Maintenance, and Organization of a General Court of Appeal for
	Canada, and for the Establishment of any additional Courts for
	the better Administration of of the Laws of Canada.

			VIII. Revenues; Debts; Assets; Taxation

	102.  All Duties and    Revenues  over  which the   respective
	Legislatures of Canada, Nova Scotia,  and New Brunswick before
	and  at the Union had  and have Power of Appropriation, except
	such Portions  thereof  as are by  this  Act reserved  to  the
	respective  Legislatures  of  the Provinces, or  are raised by
	them in accordance with the special Powers  conferred  on them
	by this Act,  shall for One  Consolidated Revenue Fund, to  be
	appropriated for the Public   Service of Canada in  the Manner
	and subject to the Charges in this Act provided.

	103.  The  Consolidated   Revenue   Fund  of Canada   shall be
	permanently  charged  with   the Costs,  Charges  and Expenses
	incident to  the Collection, Management,  and Receipt thereof,
	and the same shall  form the First Charge  thereon, subject to
	be reviewed and audited in such Manner as shall  be ordered by
	the Governor General in Council until the Parliament otherwise
	provides.

	104. The annual Interest on  the  Public Debts of the  Several
	Provinces of Canada, Nova  Scotia,  and New  Brunswick  at the
	Union shall form the Second Charge on the Consolidated Revenue
	Fund of Canada.

	105. Unless altered by the Parliament of Canada, Salary of the
	Governor General  shall  be  Ten thousand Pounds   of Sterling
	Money of  the United  Kingdom of  Great  Britain and  Ireland,
	payable out of the  Consolidated Revenue Fund  of  Canada, and
	the same shall form the Third Charge thereon.

	106. Subject  to the several Payments by   this Act charged on
	the Consolidated  Revenue Fund of   Canada, the same  shall be
	appropriated  by  the Parliament  of    Canada for the  Public
	Service.

	107. All Stocks, Cash, Banker's  Balances, and Securities  for
	Money  belonging  to each Province at  the  Time of the Union,
	except  as in this Act  mentioned,  shall be  the  Property of
	Canada, and shall be taken in  Reduction of the  Amount of the
	respective Debts of the Provinces at the Union.

	108.  The  Public   Works   and Property   of  each  Province,
	enumerated in the  Third  Schedule to this  Act, shall be  the
	Property of Canada.

	109. All lands, Mines, Minerals and Royalties belonging to the
	Several Provinces of Canada, Nova Scotia, and New Brunswick at
	the Union, and all  Sums  then due or  payable for such Lands,
	Mines,  Minerals or Royalties,  shall belong to   the  several
	Provinces of Ontario, Quebec, Nova Scotia and New Brunswick in
	which the same  are situate of   arise, subject to any  trusts
	existing in  respect thereof, and to any  Interest  other than
	that of the Province in same.

	110.  All Assets connected   with such Portions  of the Public
	Debt  of each Province  as are assumed  by that Province shall
	belong to that Province.

	111. Canada  shall be liable  for  the Debts and Liabilites of
	each Province existing at the Union.

	112.  Ontario and Quebec conjointly shall  be liable to Canada
	for the Amount (if any)  by which  the Debt of the Province of
	Canada exceeds  at  the Union  Sixty-Two million  five hundred
	thousand Dollars, and shall be  charged with  Interest at  the
	Rate of Five per Centum per Annum thereon.

	113. The Assets enumerated in the Fourth Schedule to  this Act
	belonging at the Union to the Province of Canada  shall be the
	property of Ontario and Quebec conjointly.

	114.  Nova Scotia shall be liable to Canada for the Amount (if
	any)  by which its  Public Debt  exceeds  at the  Union  Eight
	million Dollars,  and shall  be charged with  Interest  at the
	Rate of Five per Centum per Annum thereon.

	115.  New  Brunswick shall be liable  to Canada for the Amount
	(if any) by which  its Public Debt exceeds  at the Union Seven
	million Dollars, and  shall  be charged with Interest   at the
	Rate of Five per Centum per Annum thereon.

	116. In case the Public Debts of Nova Scotia and New Brunswick
	do not at the Union amount to Eight  million and Seven million
	Dollars  respectively,  they  shall   respectively receive  by
	half-yearly Payments in advance  from the Government of Canada
	Interest  at Five per  Centum   per Annum  on  the  Difference
	between the actual Amounts  of their respective Debts and such
	stipulated Amounts.

	117. The  several Provinces shall retain  all their respective
	Public Property not otherwise disposed of in this Act, subject
	to the Right of Canada to assume any  Lands or Public Property
	required for Fortifications or for the Defence of the Country.

	118. REPEALED.

	119. SPENT.
	[Initial transfer payments on New Brunswick's debt at the time
	of Union.]

	120. All Payments to be made under  this Act, or  in discharge
	of  Liabilities  created under  any  Act of the  Provinces  of
	Canada,  Nova Scotia,    and New  Brunswick  respectively, and
	assumed by  Canada,   shall,  until  the Parliament  of Canada
	otherwise directs, be made in such Form and Manner as may from
	Time to Time be ordered by the Governor General in Council.

	121. All  Articles of the Growth,   Produce, or Manufacture of
	any one of  the Provinces shall, from and  after the Union, be
	admitted free into each of the other Provinces.

	122. SPENT.

	123. SPENT.

	124. SPENT.

	[These three  clauses defined initial  and the transition from
	the existing Provincial regulations to the new Federal customs
	regulations. Now covered by a  host of Federal regulations and
	Acts.]


	125. No Lands or Property  belonging to Canada or any Province
	shall be liable to Taxation.

	126. Such  Portions of the Duties  and Revenues over which the
	respective Legislatures  of   Canada, Nova  Scotia,  and   New
	Brunswick had before the Union Power  of Appropriation  as are
	by this Act reserved to    the  respective   Governments   and
	Legislatures  of the  Provinces,  and all  Duties and Revenues
	raised by them in accordance with the special Powers conferred
	upon them by   this   Act, shall  in  each  Province  form One
	Consolidated Revenue Fund  to be appropriated   for the Public
	Service of the Province.


			IX. Miscellaneous Provisions

				General

	127. REPEALED.

	128. Every Member of the Senate or House of Commons  of Canada
	shall before taking his Seat therein take and subscribe before
	the Governor General  or some Person  authorized  by him,  and
	every member of a  Legislative Council or Legislative Assembly
	of any Province shall before taking this Seat therein take and
	subscribe before  the   Lieutenant  Governor or   some  Person
	authorized  by him, the Oath of  Allegiance  contained  in the
	Fifth Schedule to this Act; and every  Member of the Senate of
	Canada  and every Member of the  Legislative Council of Quebec
	shall also, before taking his Seat therein, take and subscribe
	before the Governor General or  some Person authorized by him,
	the Declaration contained in the same Schedule.

	129.  Except as  otherwise provided by   this Act, all Laws in
	force in Canada,  Nova Scotia or New Brunswick  at the  Union,
	and all Courts  of   Civil and Criminal  Jurisdiction, and all
	legal Commissions,  Powers, and Authorities, and all Officers,
	Judicial, Administrative, and Ministerial, existing therein at
	the Union, shall continue  in Ontario, Quebec, Nova Scotia and
	New Brunswick respectively, as if the Union had not been made;
	subject  nevertheless (except  with  respect to such   as  are
	enacted by  or exist  under Acts of   the Parliament  of Great
	Britain  or of the  Parliament of the United  Kingdom of Great
	Britain and Ireland,) to be repealed, abolished, or altered by
	the Parliament   of  Canada, or  by    the  Legislature of the
	respective  Province,   according   to the   Authority of  the
	Parliament or of that Legislature under this Act.

	[See the note to section 12, above.]

	130. SPENT.
	[Withdrawl of  power from  provincial officals concerned  with
	subjects coming   under  the jurisdiction   of    the  Federal
	government at the time of Union.]

	131. Until the Parliament  of  Canada otherwise provides,  the
	Governor General in Council may from Time to Time appoint such
	Officers as the Governor General in Council deems necessary or
	proper for the effectual Execution of this Act.

	132. The Parliament and  Government of Canada  shall have  all
	Powers  necessary or proper for  performing the Obligations of
	Canada or  of any Province  thereof, as  Part  of  the British
	Empire,  towards  Foreign   Countries, arising  under Treaties
	between the Empire and such Foreign Countries.

	133. Either the English or the French Language  may be used by
	any Person in the  Debates of the  Houses or the Parliament of
	Canada  and  of the Houses  of the Legislature  of Quebec; and
	both these Languages  shall be used  in the respective Records
	and Journals  of  those Houses; and  either of those Languages
	may be used by any Person or in any Pleading  or Process in or
	issuing from any Court of  Canada established under  this Act,
	and in or from all or any of the Courts of Quebec.

	The Acts of the Parliament of Canada and of the Legislature of
	Quebec shall be printed and published in both those Languages.

	134. SPENT.

	135. SPENT.

	[These two clauses deal  with   the withdrawl of   power  from
	provincial cabnet ministers dealing with subjects coming under
	the  jurisdiction of the  Federal   government at the  time of
	Union.]

	136. Until altered by the  Lieutenant Governor in Council, the
	Great Seals  of  Ontario and Quebec  respectively shall be the
	same, or of the same Design, as those used in the Provinces of
	Upper Canada and Lower Canada respectively  before their Union
	as the Province of Canada.

	137. The  words "and  from thence  to the   End of  then  next
	ensuing  Session  of the Legislature,"  or  Words to  the same
	Effect, used in  any temporary Act of the  Province of  Canada
	not expired before the Union, shall be construed to extend and
	apply to the next Session  of the Parliament of Canada  if the
	Subject Matter of the Act is within the Powers of  the same as
	defined   by this Act,   or   to the   next  Sessions  of  the
	Legislatures of Ontario and Quebec respectively if the Subject
	Matter of the Act is within the  Powers of the same as defined
	by this Act.

	138. From and  after  the Union  the Use of  the  Words "Upper
	Canada" instead  of  "Ontario"  or "Lower Canada"   instead of
	"Quebec," in  any  Deed,   Writ, Process, Pleading,  Document,
	Matter or Thing, shall not invalidate the same.

	139. SPENT.
	[Continuance  of proclamations issued under the  Great Seal of
	the Province of Canada issued before the  Union to take effect
	after the Union.]

	140. SPENT.
	[Issue of proclamations  after  the Union  authorized by  Acts
	passed by the Province of Canada before the Union.]

	141. SPENT.
	[Continuance of the Penitentiary of Canada as the Penitentiary
	of Ontario and Quebec.]

	142. SPENT.
	[Arbitration of debts between  Ontario and  Quebec at the time
	of Union.]

	143. SPENT.
	[Division of records between Ontario and Quebec at the time of
	Union.]

	144. The Lieutenant Governor of Quebec may  from Time to Time,
	by Proclamation under the Great  Seal of the Province, to take
	effect from a  Day to appointed  therein, constitute Townships
	in those Parts  of the Province of Quebec  in  which Townships
	are not then already constituted, and fix the Metes and Bounds
	thereof.

	145. REPEALED.

	146. It shall be lawful for the Queen,  by and with the Advice
	of Her Majesty's Most Honourable  Privy Council,  on Addresses
	from the Houses of Parliament of  Canada,  and from the Houses
	of the respective Legislatures of the Colonies or Provinces of
	Newfoundland, Prince  Edward Island, and British  Columbia, to
	admit those Colonies or Provinces,  or any of  them, into  the
	Union, and on Address from the  Houses of Parliament of Canada
	to admit Rupert's   Land and the  North-western  Territory, or
	either of them,  into the Union,  on such Terms and Conditions
	in each Case  as are  in the  Addresses  expressed and as  the
	Queen thinks fit to approve, subject to the provisions of this
	Act; and the Provisions of any Order in Council on that Behalf
	shall  have effect  as  if  they   had been  enacted  by   the
	Parliament of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland.

	147. SPENT.
	[Admission of Newfoundland and Nova Scotia.]

				   
			      SCHEDULES
				   
		(The first to fifth schedules are omitted)

			  The Sixth Schedule

	    Primary Production from Non-Renewable Natural
		  Resources and Forestry Resources.


	1. For the purposes of Section 92A of this Act,

		(a) production from    a  non-renewable   natural
		resource is primary production therefrom if

			(i) it is in  the form in which it exists
		            upon 	its recovery or severance
		            from its natural state, or

			(ii) it is a  product    resulting   from
		            processing  or refining the resource,
		            and is not  a manufactured product or
		            a  product  resulting  from  refining
		            crude oil, refining   upgraded  heavy
		            crude oil, refining  gases or liquids
		            derived   from   coal,   or  refining
		            synthetic equivilant   of  crude oil;
		            and

		(b)  production  from  a  forestry   resource  is
		primary production therefrom if  it  consists  of
		saw logs,  poles, lumber, wood chips,  sawdust or
		other  primary wood product or wood  pulp, and is
		not a product manufactured from wood.


>From Stewart.Clamen@BYRON.SP.CS.CMU.EDU Thu Aug 27 21:33:03 1992
Received: from BYRON.SP.CS.CMU.EDU by eff.org with SMTP id AA21277
 (5.65c/IDA-1.4.4/pen-ident for <kadie@eff.org>); Thu, 27 Aug 1992 21:33:01 -0400 
Message-Id: <199208280133.AA21277@eff.org>
From: "Stewart M. Clamen" <clamen@CS.CMU.EDU>
Date: Thu, 27 Aug 92 21:32:36 EDT 
To: "Carl M. Kadie" <kadie@eff.org>
In-Reply-To: kadie@eff.org's message of 27 Aug 92 20:43:04 GMT
Subject: Constitution Act, 1982
Reply-To: clamen+@CS.CMU.EDU
Status: RO


			Constitution Act, 1982


	Part I

		Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms

	Whereas Canada is founded  upon  the principles that recognize
	the supremacy of God and the rule of law:


	Guarantee of Rights and Freedoms

	1. The Canadian Charter  of Rights and Freedoms guarantees the
	rights and  freedoms set  out in it   subject  only  to   such
	reasonable  limits prescribed  by law  as can be  demonstrably
	justified in a free and democratic society.


	Fundamental Freedoms

	2. Everyone has the following fundamental freedoms:
		(a) freedom of conscience and religion
		(b) freedom of thought, belief, opinion and expression,
		including freedom of the press and other means of
		communication.
		(c) freedom of peaceful assembly; and
		(d) freedom of association.


	Democratic Rights

	3.   Every citizen of  Canada has   the   right to vote in  an
	election   of  members  of  the   House    of Commons or  of a
	legislative assembly  and  to  be qualified   for   membership
	therein.

	4. (1) No House  of Commons and no legislative  assembly shall
	       continue for longer than five years from the date fixed
	       for the return of the  writs at  a general election  of
	       its members.

	   (2) In    time  of real or   apprehended   war, invasion or
	       insurrection,  a House  of Commons may  be continued by
	       Parliament and a legislative  assembly may be continued
	       by   the legislature  beyond     five  years   if  such
	       continuation is not opposed by  the  votes of more than
	       one-third of the members of the House of Commons or the
	       legislative assembly, as the case may be.

	5. There   shall  be  a sitting  of   Parliament and  of  each
	legislature at least once every twelve months.


	Mobility Rights

	6. (1) Every citizen of Canada has the right to  enter, remain
	       in, and leave Canada.

	   (2) Every  citizen of Canada  and every person  who has the
	       status of a permanent resident of Canada has the right
	       (a) to move to and take up residence in an province; and
	       (b) to pursue the gaining of livelyhood in any province.

	   (3) The rights specified in subsection (2) are subject to
		(a)  any laws or  practices of general  application in
		force in a province other than those that discriminate
		among persons primarily  on  the basis  of present  or
		previous residence; and
		(b)  any   laws  providing for   reasonable  residency
		requirements as  a  qualification for the  receipt  of
		publically provided social services.

	   (4) Subsections   (2) and (3)   do  not  preclude any  law,
	       program   or  activity that  has  as  its  object   the
	       amelioration in a province of conditions of individuals
	       in that  province  who  are  socially  or  economically
	       disadvantaged  if   the  rate of  employment   in  that
	       province is below the rate of employment in Canada.


	Legal Rights

	7. Everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of the
	person and the right   not to be  deprived thereof   except in
	accordance with the principles of fundamental justice.

	8. Everyone has  the  right to be secure  against unreasonable
	search or seizure.

	9. Everyone has the right  not to be  arbitrarily  detained or
	imprisoned.

	10. Everyone has the right on arrest or detention
		(a) to be informed promptly of the reason therefor;
		(b) to retain and  instruct counsel without  delay and.
		to be informed of that right; and
		(c) to  have  the validity of the detention determined
		by way  of  habeas  corpus and to  be released  if the
		detention is not lawful.

	11. Any person charged with an offence has the right
		(a) to be informed without unreasonable delay of the
		specific offence;
		(b) to be tried within a reasonable time;
		(c) not to be compelled to be a witness in a proceedings
		against that person in respect of the offence;
		(d) to be presumed innocent until proven guilty according
		to law in a fair and public hearing by an independent and
		impartial tribunal;
		(e) not to be denied reasonable bail without cause;
		(f) except in the case of an offence under military law
		tried before a military tribunal, to the benefit of trial
		by jury where the maximum punishment for the offence is
		imprisonment for five years or a more severe punishment;
		(g) not to be found guilty on account of any act or
		omission unless, at the time of the act or omission, it
		constituted an offence under Canadian or International law
		or was criminal according to the general principles of law
		recognized by the community of nations;
		(h) if finally acquited of the offence, not to be tried for
		it again and, if finally found guilty and punished for the
		offence, not to be tried or punished for it again; and
		(i) if found guilty of the offence and if punishment for
		the offence has been varied between the time of commission
		and the time of sentencing, to the benefit of the lesser
		punishment.

	12. Everyone has the right not to be subjected to any cruel or
	unusual treatment or punishment.

	13. A witness who testifies  in any  proceedings has the right
	not  to  have  any incriminating  evidence  so given  used  to
	incriminate that witness in any other proceedings, except in a
	prosecution for perjury  or   for the giving  of contradictory
	evidence.

	14.  A party  or   witness  in  any proceedings who   does not
	understand or speak the language in which  the proceedings are
	conducted or who is deaf has the right to the assistance of an
	interpreter.


	Equality Rights

	15. (1) Every individual is equal before the and under the law
	and has the right to the equal protection and equal benefit of
	the law without  discrimination  based  on race,   national or
	ethnic  origin, colour,  religion,  sex,  age, or  mental   or
	physical disability.

	    (2) Subsection (1) does  not preclude any law,  program or
	activity that has as its object the amelioration of conditions
	of disadvantaged individuals  or  groups  including those that
	are disadvantaged because or race,  national or ethnic origin,
	colour, religion, sex, age, or mental or physical disability.


	Official Languages of Canada

	16.  (1)  English  and  French are  the  official languages of
	Canada and have equal rights and privileges as to their use in
	all institutions of the Parliament and government of Canada.

	    (2) English and  French are the  official languages of New
	Brunswick  and have  equality of status  and equal  rights and
	privileges   as  to the   use  in all   institutions   of  the
	legislature and government of new Brunswick.

	    (3)   Nothing in  this    Charter limits  the authority of
	Parliament of a legislature to advance  the equality of status
	or use of English and French.

	17. (1) Everyone has the right to use English or French in any
	debates or other proceedings of Parliament.

	    (2) Everyone has the right to use English or French in any
	debate   and other   proceeding  of   the  legislature of  New
	Brunswick.

	18. The Statutes, records  and journals of Parliament shall be
	printed and published in English and  French and both language
	versions are equally authoritative.

	19. (1) Either English or French may be used by any person in,
	or  in any   pleading  in or  process   issuing from any court
	established by Parliament.

	    (2) Either English or French may be used by any person in,
	or in any pleading in or process issuing from any court of New
	Brunswick.

	20. (1) Any member of the  public of Canada  has the  right to
	communicate with, and to receive available  services from, any
	head or central office of an institution  of the Parliament or
	government of Canada  in English or  French, and has  the same
	right with respect to any other office of any such institution
	where
		(a) there is  significant  demand  for  communications
		with and services  from that office in  such language;
		or
		(b) due to the nature of the  office, it is reasonable
		that communications with and services from that office
		be available in both English and French.

	    (2) Any member  of  the public in   New Brunswick  has the
	right to communicate  with, and to receive  available services
	from,  any office of  an institution   of  the legislature  or
	government of New Brunswick in English or French.

	21. Nothing  in sections 16 to 20  abrogates or derogates from
	any right, privilege or obligation with respect to the English
	and  French languages,  or either of  them, that  exists or is
	continued by virtue of any other provision of the Constitution
	of Canada.

	22. Nothing in sections  16 to 20  abrogates or derogates from
	any legal or customary right or  privilege acquired or enjoyed
	either before  or after the  coming into force of this Charter
	with respect to any language that is not English or French.


	Minority Language Educational Rights

	23. (1) Citizens of Canada
		(a) whose  first language learned and still understood
		is that of the  English or  French linguistic minority
		population of the province in which they reside, or
		(b) who have received their primary school instruction
		in Canada in   English   or French  and reside  in   a
		province  where the language  in  which  they received
		that instruction is the language  of  the  English  or
		French linguistic minority population of the province,
	have the  right to  have  their  children receive  primary and
	secondary school   instruction   in  that   language in   that
	province.

	    (2) Citizens of Canada of  whom any child has received  or
	is  receiving   primary  or  secondary  school  instruction in
	English or French in Canada, have the  right to have all their
	children  receive primary and secondary  school instruction in
	the same language.

	    (3) The right of citizens of  Canada under subsections (1)
	and  (2) to have  their children receive primary and secondary
	school  instruction in the  language of the English or  French
	linguistic minority population of a province
		(a) applies wherever  in  the  province the number  of
		children  of  citizens  who  have   such   a  right is
		sufficient  to  warrant  the provision to them  out of
		public funds of minority language instruction; and
		(b)   includes,  where the   number   of  children  so
		warrants,  the   right  to  have    them  receive that
		instruction  in    minority     language   educational
		facilities provided out of public funds.


	Enforcement

	24. (1) Anyone whose rights or freedoms, as guaranteed by this
	Charter, have been infringed or denied may apply to a court of
	competent  jurisdiction  to obtain such  remedy  as  the court
	considers appropriate and just in the circumstances.

	    (2) Where, in proceedings under   subsection (1), a  court
	concludes   that  evidence  was   obtained  in a  manner  that
	infringed or denied any rights  or freedoms guaranteed by this
	Charter, the evidence  shall be excluded  if it is established
	that, having regard to all the circumstances, the admission of
	it in the   proceedings would   bring  the administration   of
	justice into disrepute.


	General

	25.  The guarantee in  this   Charter of certain   rights  and
	freedoms shall not be construed  so as to abrogate or derogate
	from any aboriginal,  treaty or other  rights or freedoms that
	pertain to the aboriginal peoples of Canada including
		(a)  any rights or  freedoms that have been recognized
		by the Royal Proclamation of October 7, 1763; and
		(b) any rights or freedoms that may be acquired by the
		aboriginal   peoples of Canada  by  way of land claims
		settlement.

	26. The  guarantee  in this  Charter  of  certain  rights  and
	freedoms  shall not  be construed as  denying the existence of
	any other rights and freedoms that exist in Canada.

	27. This Charter  shall be interpreted in  a manner consistent
	with  the  preservation  and enhancement of the  multicultural
	heritage of Canadians.

	28. Notwithstanding  anything in this Charter, the  rights and
	freedoms referred to in it are guaranteed  equally to male and
	female persons.

	29. Nothing in  this Charter abrogates or derogates   from any
	rights or privileges  guaranteed by  or under the Constitution
	of  Canada    in   respect  of   denominational,   separate or
	dissentient schools.

	30. A  reference  in this Charter  to   a province or   to the
	legislative  assembly or  legislature of  a province  shall be
	deemed to  include a reference to  the Yukon Territory and the
	Northwest Territories,  or   to the   appropriate  legislative
	authority thereof, as the case may be.

	31. Nothing in this Charter extends the legislative  powers of
	any body or authority.


	Application of Charter

	32. (1) This Charter applies
		(a) to the  Parliament  and government of  Canada   in
		respect   of  all  matters    within  the authority of
		Parliament including all matters relating to the Yukon
		Territory and Northwest Territories; and
		(b)  to   the   legislatures  and governments  of each
		province  in  respect  of  all   matters   within  the
		authority of the legislature of each province.
	    (2) Notwithstanding subsection  (1), section  15 shall not
	have  effect until  three years after  this section comes into
	force.

	33.  (1) Parliament  or  the legislature   of a province   may
	expressly    declare in an   Act  of  Parliament   or of   the
	legislature,  as the case may be,  that the Act or a provision
	thereof shall operate notwithstanding  a provision included in
	section 2 or section 7 to 15 of this Charter.
	    (2) An Act or a provision of an Act in respect  of which a
	declaration made  under this section  is  in effect shall have
	such operation as it would have but for the provision  of this
	Charter referred to in the declaration.
	    (3) A declaration made under subsection (1) shall cease to
	have effect five years after  it comes into  force  or on such
	earlier date as may be specified in the declaration.
	    (4)   Parliament or  the  legislature  of  a  province may
	re-enact a declaration made under subsection (1).
	    (5) Subsection (3) applies in respect of re-enactment made
	under subsection (4).

	34. This Part may be  cited as the  Canadian Charter of Rights
	and Freedoms.



				Part II

	Rights of the Aboriginal Peoples of Canada

	35.  (1) The  existing aboriginal  and  treaty  rights  of the
	aboriginal  peoples   of  Canada  are  hereby recognized   and
	affirmed.

	    (2) In this Act, "aboriginal  peoples of  Canada" includes
	the Indian, Inuit, and Metis peoples of Canada.



				Part III

	Equalization and Regional Disparties

	36.  (1)    Without  altering  the  legislative  authority  of
	Parliament or of the provincial legislatures, or the rights of
	any of them with respect to the  exercise of their legislative
	authority, Parliament  and the legislatures, together with the
	government of   Canada and   the  provincial governments,  are
	committed to
		(a) promoting equal opportunities for  the  well-being
		    of Canadians;
		(b) furthering the  economic    development to  reduce
		    disparity in opportunities; and
		(c) providing essential public services of  reasonable
		    quality to all Canadians.
	
	    (2) Parliament and the government  of Canada are committed
	to   the principle of   making equalization payments to ensure
	that 	  provincial governments have  sufficient  revenues to
	provide reasonably comparable  levels of public   services  at
	reasonably comparable levels of taxation.


				Part IV

	Constitutional Conference

	37. SPENT.
	[Discussed convention of a constitutional conference including
	discussions relating  to aboriginal rights  within one year of
	the adoption of the Act.]

		
				Part V

	Procedure for Amending the Constitution of Canada

	38. (1) An amendment to the Constitution of Canada may be made
	by proclamation issued by the Governor General under the Great
	Seal of Canada where so authorized by
		(a)  resolutions  of the   Senate and   the  House  of
		Commons; and
		(b) resolutions  of the  legislative assemblies  of at
		least  two-thirds of the  provinces  that have, in the
		aggregate,  according to  the   then latest    general
		census, at  least fifty per cent  of the population of
		the provinces.

	    (2) An amendment made under subsection  (1) that derogates
	from  the legislative  powers, the proprietary   rights or any
	other rights or privileges of the legislature or government of
	a province shall require  a resolution supported by a majority
	of the members of each of the Senate, the House of Commons and
	the legislative assemblies required under subsection (1).

	    (3) An amendment  referred to in  subsection (2) shall not
	have  effect in a  province the legislative assembly  of which
	has expressed its dissent thereto by resolution supported by a
	majority of its members prior to the issue of the proclamation
	to  which  the  amendment  relates  unless  that   legislative
	assembly, subsequently,  by resolution supported by a majority
	of  its members,   revokes    its dissent and  authorizes  the
	amendment.

	    (4) A resolution of  dissent made   for  the  purposes  of
	subsection (3) may be revoked at any  time before or after the
	issue of the proclamation to which it relates.

	39. (1) A proclamation  shall  not be issued  under subsection
	38(1) before  the expiration of  one year from the adoption of
	the resolution initiating the amendment  procedure, unless the
	legislative assembly of each province has previously adopted a
	resolution of assent or dissent.

	    (2) A  proclamation  shall not be  issued under subsection
	38(1) after the expiration of three years from the adoption of
	the resolution initiating the amendment procedure thereunder.

	40.  Where an amendment  is  made under  subsection 38(1) that
	transfers  provincial legislative powers relating to education
	or  other  cultural matters from   provincial  legislatures to
	Parliament, Canada  shall  provide reasonable  compensation to
	any province to which the amendment does not apply.

	41. An amendment to the Constitution of Canada in  relation to
	the  following matters may  be made  by proclamation issued by
	the Governor General under the Great Seal of Canada only where
	authorized by resolutions of  the  Senate and House of Commons
	and of the legislative assemblies of each province:
		(a) the office of the Queen,  the Governor General and
		the Lieutenant Governor of a province;
		(b) the right of a province to  a number of members in
		the  House  of  Commons not less   than the number  of
		Senators  by which  the  province is entitled  to   be
		represented at the time this Part comes into force;
		(c) subject to section  43, the use  of the English or
		the French language;
		(d) the composition   of the Supreme Court of  Canada;
		and
		(e) an amendment to this Part.

	42. (1) An amendment to the Constitution of Canada in relation
	to the following matters may  be made  only in accordance with
	subsection 38(1):
		(a) the principle of  proportionate representation  of
		the provinces in  the House of   Commons prescribed by
		the Constitution of Canada;
		(b)   the  powers of   the Senate   and  the method of
		selecting Senators;
		(c)  the  number  of members by  which  a  province is
		entitled to  be  represented  in  the  Senate and  the
		residence qualifications of Senators;
		(d) subject  to paragraph  41(d), the Supreme Court of
		Canada;
		(e)   the extension   of  existing provinces into  the
		territories; and
		(f) notwithstanding  any other  law or   practice, the
		establishment of new provinces;

	    (2) Subsections 38(2) to 38(4) do not  apply in respect of
	    amendments  in   relation  to     matters referred   to in
	    subsection (1).

	43. An amendment to the Constitution  of Canada in relation to
	any  provision  that  applies  to   one or   more, but not all
	provinces, including
		(a) any  alteration  to boundaries between  provinces,
		and
		(b) any amendment to any provisions that relate to the
		use of  the  English or the  French  language within a
		province

	may  be made  by proclamation issued   by the Governor General
	under  the Great Seal  of Canada  only  where so authorized by
	resolutions of the  Senate and House  of  Commons  and  of the
	legislative  assembly of each province  to which the amendment
	applies.

	44. Subject to sections 41  and 42, Parliament may exclusively
	make laws amending  the Constitution of  Canada in relation to
	executive government of   Canada or the  Senate and  House  of
	Commons.

	45. Subject  to section 41,  the legislature of  each province
	may exclusively make  laws amending  the  constitution of  the
	province.

	46. (1) The procedures  for  amendment under sections 38,  41,
	42, and 43 may be initiated either by the Senate or  the House
	of Commons or by the legislative assembly of province.

	    (2) A resolution of  assent for the  purposes of this Part
	may be revoked at any time before the issue  of a proclamation
	authorized by it.

	47.  (1) An amendment  to the Constitution  of  Canada made by
	proclamation  under section  38,  41, 42,  or  43 may be  made
	without  a resolution of the Senate  authorizing  the issue of
	the proclamation if, within one hundred and  eighty days after
	the   adoption by  the   House  of  Commons  of  a  resolution
	authorizing its  issue, the  Senate  has  not  adopted such  a
	resolution  and if, at  any time after  the expiration of that
	period, the House of Commons again adopts the resolution.

	    (2) Any period  when Parliament is  prorogued or dissolved
	shall not be counted in  computing the one  hundred and eighty
	day period referred to in subsection (1).

	48. The  Queen's  Privy  Council for  Canada  shall advise the
	Governor General to  issue  a  proclamation  under this   Part
	forthwith on the  adoption of the  resolution  required for an
	amendment made by proclamation under this part.

	49. A  constitutional   conference of the   Prime  Minister of
	Canada and the first ministers shall be convened by  the Prime
	Minister of Canada within fifteen years after this  Part comes
	into force to review the provisions of this Part.


				Part VI

	Amendment to the Constitution Act, 1867

	50. SPENT.
	[Amended the _Constitution  Act, 1867_ by  adding  section 92A
	(q.v), having to  do  with provincial powers to administer and
	tax non-renewable natural resources.]

	51. SPENT.
	[Amended the  _Constitution Act, 1867_  by adding  a the Sixth
	Schedule    (q.v.),     defining  "primary production   from a
	non-renewable natural resource".]


				Part VII

	General

	52. (1)  The  Constitution  of Canada   is the supreme  law of
	Canada,  and any law  that is inconsistent with the provisions
	of the Constitution is, to the extent of the inconsistency, of
	no force or effect.

	    (2) The Constitution of Canada includes
		(a) the _Canada Act, 1982_, including this Act;
		(b) the Acts  and orders referred  to in the Schedule;
	        and
		(c) any amendment to any Act or order referred to in
		paragraph (a) or (b).

	    (3) Amendments to the Constitution of Canada shall be made
	only in   accordance   with the   authority contained   in the
	Constitution of Canada.

	53. (1) The enactments referred to in Column I of the schedule
	are hereby  repealed  or amended  to  be extent  indicated  in
	Column II thereof, and unless repealed,  shall continue as law
	in Canada under the names set out in Column III thereof.

	    (2) Every enactment,  except the _Canada Act, 1982_,  that
	refers to an enactment referred to in the schedule by the name
	in Column I thereof is hereby amended by substituting for that
	name the corresponding name  in  Column  III thereof,  and any
	British North America Act not referred to in the  schedule may
	be cited  as the _Constitution  Act_ followed by  the year and
	number, if any, of its enactment.

	54. Part IV is repealed on the day that is one year after this
	Part comes into force, and  this section may  be repealed  and
	this Act renumbered, consequentially  upon the repeal  of Part
	IV and  this section,  by proclamation issued by the  Governor
	General under the Great Seal of Canada.

	55. A French version of  the  portions  of the Constitution of
	Canada referred  to  in the schedule shall  be prepared by the
	Minister of Justice of  Canada  as expeditiously  as  possible
	and, when  any portion thereof   sufficient to warrant  action
	being  taken has been prepared, it   shall be  put forward for
	enactment by proclamation issued by the Governor General under
	the  Great   Seal of  Canada  pursuant  to the  procedure then
	applicable to   an   amendment  of the same  provisions of the
	Constitution of Canada.

	56.  Where any portion of the  Constitution of Canada has been
	or is enacted in English and French or  where a French version
	of  any  portion of the Constitution  is enacted   pursuant to
	section 55, the English and French versions of that portion of
	the Constitution are equally authoritative.

	57. The English and  French versions  of  this Act are equally
	authoritative.

	58. Subject to section 59, this Act shall come into force on a
	day  to be fixed  by proclamation issued  by the  Queen or the
	Governor General under the Great Seal of Canada.

	59. (1) Paragraph 23(1)(a) shall come into force in respect of
	Quebec on a  day to be fixed by  proclamation  issued  by  the
	Queen or the Governor General under the Great Seal of Canada.

	    (2) A  proclamation under subsection  (1) shall  be issued
	only  where   authorized   by   the legislative assembly    or
	government of Quebec.

	    (3) This section  may  be repealed  on the   day paragraph
	23(1)(a) comes into  force in respect of  Quebec and this  Act
	amended and renumbered, consequentially up  the repeal of this
	section, by proclamation  issued by  the Queen or the Governor
	General under the Great Seal of Canada.

	60. This Act may be cited as the _Constitution Act, 1982_, and
	the Constitution Acts 1867 to 1975 (No. 2) and this Act may be
	cited together as the _Constitution Acts, 1867 to 1982_.


